---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-12-16
published: true
labels:
  - Progress
---

### Reflecting on Assignment 3

###### Briefly describe your system 
A store selling custom painted hats, bags, and towels. 

###### Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?
The emailing does not work unless I am connected to the UH network.

###### Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
Generally that all the parts work as expected, and that the pages are interconnected to eachother in some way. 

###### Describe what you are least happy with your system:
I think the design could have been somewhat better. 

###### How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?
It was even more interpretation of the task, and many possibilities to do what you wanted yourself as long as you had some general things in place. This was fun, but also more challenging as you had to RTFM more. 

###### When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?
I tried to search it up online, and if I could not find anything I went to our professor for help.

###### Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?
I created an overview of everything that needed to be done, and checked off the task as I finished them. This gave me more of an overview of the whole system rather than just fixing things here here and there. 

###### Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?
I spendt a lot of time trying to implement some of the features rather than thinking about how I actually was supposed to do it. I believe if I had spent more time before starting to write the code thinking about the implementation I would have saved some time. It was also hard to work on the assignment while also having a lot of other finals. 

###### What did you learn from doing this assignment?
It is important to clearly define what you want to do before you start writing the code. 

###### If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?
Same as above. 

###### Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
20%, 20% and 60%
