---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Information Management in Novo Nordisk"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-02-06
published: false
labels:
  - Information Management
---
## Executive Summary

Findings. The Network Partner Refresh team’s (hereafter referred to as Network Partner) mission is to provide high-quality personalized connectivity hardware infrastructure to the rest of Novo Nordisk, a service embedded in the expertise and knowledge of the employees. The environment the team is operating in is strongly affected by the PEST factors affecting Novo Nordisk as a whole, as both the team and its customers are a part of the organization. The organizational structure is flat, where collaboration and input are encouraged, and each employee has a high degree of responsibility for the different sites they operate with. However, due to the high degree of self-direction in collaboration with the lack of a centralized information management tool, knowledge sharing, transparency, and information retrieval have proven to show up as a significant challenge, as the team grows rapidly.

Recommendations. The proposed recommendations to the Network Partners product owner are to use the principles of master data management to install templates and guides for how the customer process should be documented and where information should be stored. The currently used collaboration platform Teams will further be utilized to create a shared and centralized database for information management. This database will implement a taxonomy to prevent information overload and ensure transparency and easy retrieval. This solution will ensure collaboration between the employees, increasing and improving knowledge sharing. Consequently, as this is an integral part of the business need of the team, their customers will benefit from the solution as well, as it will decrease the lead time from a request is made by a customer, as well as make employees more informed, enabling tailored customer support.

## Business Case
Introduction
The Network Partner Refresh team of Novo Nordisk is a team within Global IT Operations. They are accountable for the life cycle management of the hardware relating to network connectivity, such as routers, switches, and access points. As these devices have an end-of-life estimate, the employees in the team are responsible for substituting the old devices with new ones, using expert knowledge to decide where the hardware should be placed and which hardware to choose. In the team, they are categorizing one site as one case. Each employee is responsible for one or more sites, storing case information on personal hard drives or private email inboxes. Hence, the team has not yet found a sustainable structure for their information management, causing a lack of transparency, availability, and consistency of case information. This poses a hindrance to their capability to transfer clients from one employee to another and share knowledge regarding the decision-making process for each case. On the background of my own experience as an employee in the team, as well as an interview with the Product Owner of Network Partner Refresh, Kiri Gylling Thyrrestrup, I will formulate a business case and come forward with recommendations that aim to solve this issue.

The Information Audit
An analysis following the steps of the Identify stage within the information audit will further be conducted, as presented in the paper The Information Audit: An integrated Approach by Buchanan & Gibb (1998). The purpose of this is to gain a deeper understanding of Network Partner’s business strategy and the current information flow within the company. The focus on the specific stage will further enable the possibility to grasp the particular business need that must be fulfilled in order to improve information management within Network Partner.

Abell’s business definition framework will be used as a benchmark to understand Network Partner’s mission. This theory considers customer group, customer needs, and technology.
The customer group of Network Partner is the building managers for the remaining teams of Novo Nordisk, to which they provide hardware and network solutions. This includes a variety of teams working within finance, marketing, and IT support, as well as production sites. These building managers and teams are geographically dispersed, located at sites all over the world, lacking knowledge of the specific service Network Partner is providing.
The needs of the teams’ customers are relating to secure and reliable network connectivity. Clients require Network Partner employees to be very customer-centric as they need to be provided with a tailored solution that fits their specific building infrastructure. The building managers are dependent on the employees of the Network Partner team because of their explicit knowledge of the matter. Hence, they further need transparency and communication of quality.
Technologies used to meet the business needs relates to the specific service the customers are provided with, being switches, routers, access points, etc. As communication between Line of Business and Network Partner employees is an essential part of the service, communication tool technologies such as email are correspondingly crucial for the team to meet the customer’s business needs. Moreover, as the actual product that creates value for clients is the knowledge of the employees, the enterprise social media platform Teams, which is used for communication between the team members, are essential to meet the customer needs as well.
Consequently, from the use of the business definition model (Abell, 1980), the mission of Network Partner is to provide high-quality personalized connectivity hardware infrastructure, which is embedded in the expertise and knowledge of the employees shared on Teams. This mission is reflected in their goal, namely to “Operate a stable COPR network that enables each local site to contribute for Novo Nordisk to drive change and improvements” (Interview). The objectives connected to achieving this goal are mainly concerned with close customer support and satisfaction through high-quality services,and keeping costs at a minimum while increasing revenue and providing a personalized hardware solution.

A PEST analysis will be conducted to understand the business environment of the team. As Network Partner is significantly affected by PEST factors affecting Novo Nordisk as a whole, considering both the team and its customers operate within the organization, these factors will also be considered.
The political factors affecting the team are both related to their specific business activities and more general labor and tax policies. Legal frameworks for contract enforcement, intellectual property protection, and trade regulations are all political factors affecting the specific business processes, as they must align with the current legislation. Political factors affecting Novo Nordisk also impact the team, proven in the recent year under the war in Ukraine. At this point, the Russian production site was shut down, and consequently, Network Partner lost a customer.
Network Partner are further affected by economic factors such as inflation and change in exchange rates as they have customers all over the world operating with different currencies. However, Novo Nordisk has proven to be minimally affected by macroeconomic factors. This was especially evident in the previous years with both a pandemic and war, causing the economy to grow at a slower pace than usual, but not only minimally affecting the business of Novo Nordisk. Hence, Network Partners business has shown to be relatively stable concerning economic factors.
Social factors in the team environment relate to the general societal attitudes of their customers, for instance, toward the implementation of new technology infrastructure, as the technology in hand requires explicit knowledge and skill to understand and implement. The development and transportation process of the hardware devices also have a negative impact on the environment, which has become an essential topic of social factors in recent years, affecting Network Partners environment. Network Partner is also affected by the fact that Novo Nordisk is a company in growth, as their number of customers is growing at the same rate, and need to consider that they have customers with dispersed cultural backgrounds.
Technological factors in Network Partner’s environment affect both the hardware they are providing to their customers and the technological platforms they communicate on. The hardware devices they provide have a high rate of innovation with constant improvements. Further, Teams and email development are essential, as it is crucial platforms for business processes to run smoothly for Network Partner. 

The organizational structure in Network Partner can be defined by using the terminology of Mintzberg (1979), where Network Partner can be described as an operating adhocracy, as it “innovates and solves problems directly on behalf of its clients” (Mintzberg, 1979, p.436). The team only has one manager, creating a flat structure where each employee has a high degree of self-determination, responsible for different sites, and manages these independently (Interview). Knowledge regarding decisions and site-specific content is moreover decentralized as it is not stored on an integrated and collaborative platform. Network Partners internal culture can be described as being built on collaboration, innovation, and openness. This is because ideas and challenges from all levels are taken into consideration to enhance operations, and employees are encouraged to come and ask for help (Interview). This is also reflected in their agile way of working with daily standup meetings. However, based on a field analysis where observations and conversations were conducted on the team’s latest PI Planning held on the 16th of May 2023, it became apparent that the team members feel stressed because of the constantly growing amount of work. The summaries of the findings are reflected below, drawing upon Lewin’s (1947) theory of a force field analysis.
The forces for change revolve around the innovative and transparent environment within the team. They are focused on improving and automating processes to be more time efficient as the workload is growing. It can also be concluded that since the information management problem is identified by the whole team, not just the product owner, the factors accounting for a change in the current processes are desired. The forces against change also highly rely on the massive amount of work the team has, leading to stress and conflict if a new process should be implemented and learned. The team members also have different preferences for the way work and documentation processes which may create opposition if a standard way of doing things is implemented.

The employee responsible for the case from the Network Partner team will reach out to the rest of the team through Teams chat function (arrow a) to collect information regarding the site from the other colleagues in the team (arrow b). The Network Partner responsible will further reach out to the building manager to plan and present a strategy for the hardware refresh. This is done both through email (arrow c) and physical meetings (arrow d). The emails will not be stored on any other database except within the personal mail inbox. From the physical meetings, notes and minutes of meetings are stored on a personal hard drive on OneNote (arrow e), or not recorded at all (arrow f). When the decision-making process is completed, the Network Partner responsible will initiate the hardware refresh, and will on an ad-hoc basis document information such as budgets and blueprints in the shared Teams
Document function (arrow g), to which the rest of the organization has access.

## Suggested Improvements
The problem regarding the lack of a sustainable information management system has become apparent through the preceding audit analysis, empirical material such as interviews, and a field analysis. As the operations of the employees in Network Partner are highly dependent on utilizing explicit knowledge, the business problem stems from a decentralized, and occasionally even a lack of, information management. As a consequence, the relevant information is often overlooked, not shared, and structured in entirely different ways, causing opacity. This dispersion and inconsistency of the information make it difficult for colleagues to get a complete overview of different cases and efficiently retrieve relevant information about the specific sites. This is a significant problem in the event of a case being transferred from one employee to another, as the new employee has no single source of truth. As the Network Partner team is growing at significant means, new practices of managing information are needed to fulfill their business needs, as new employees are constantly hired and onboarded.

From the previous section, it can be derived that there is a need for a standardized process of information management within the team. As the steps and process taken on each case follow a constant procedure, a standard way of documenting the decision-making process will be desired. Changes should be implemented to store and share knowledge within the team in order to be able to deliver high-quality service to customers. As the team is currently using the enterprise social media platform Teams for communication, the platform can be utilized for storing documents as it will take advantage of platforms already known to the employees. If one standard way of managing records is implemented, processes and tasks will take shorter time, increasing customer satisfaction. As specified previously, Network Partners business operations are highly specified and needs to be tailored for each customer. Hence, for the business to succeed, the aforementioned factors are crucial. As Network Partner charges a premium for the services and hardware they provide to their customers, it is expected that the employees have sufficient knowledge about the different sites. Not having the required information or having to double-check and validate the information with the customer leads to a poorer quality of service, client frustration, and a decrease in customer satisfaction.

Underscoring the definition of master data management (Smith & McKeen, 2008), we can see that it is a means of developing a roadmap leading to high-quality data for an organization. As for the case of Network Partner, the basic principles behind the theory will be followed, gathering all information regarding sites, cases, and decision-making processes in one shared database on the already utilized enterprise social media platform Teams. Hence, the focus will be on the core business data only, allowing us to follow the steps of master data management. The master data management will centralize the key data within the team, providing consistent customer and product data available for all employees, serving as the single source of truth. As the team currently uses Teams as their tool for communication, which has a function for information and document management, it will be smart to utilize this platform as it is already known for the employees, making the transition towards master data management as smooth as possible. 

However, as this would significantly increase the number of documents and data stored in the collaborative database, there is a strong need for structure of the records in order to be able to retrieve the correct information both concerning clients and knowledge sharing. This must be both efficient because one of the main pain points of the team is the high workload causing a need for standardized processes, as well as easy, in order to motivate the employees to use it for knowledge sharing and collaboration. Hence, a taxonomy will be implemented in the master data management system, which is a hierarchical classification system based on a controlled vocabulary. To design a well-functioned master data management system supported by the taxonomy, I argue for the following top-down hierarchy, divided into valuable business activities and operations.

In order for the taxonomy to make sense, there is a need for the implementation of standards regarding the documentation process. Hence, there is a need for a data quality effort that “aims to ensure data is correct, complete, current, and consistent” (Smith & McKeen, 2008, p.67). The employees should have a standard template for how, where, and what information they should document for each customer. Consequently, all interactions between the customer and site responsible should be documented, following a specific agreed-upon structure between the employees and product owner to ensure consistency and a best practice process. Templates and guides should therefore be prepared in order for it to be effortless and time-saving to follow the new structure. These guides and templates in relation to the vocabulary in the taxonomy will ensure that any new information added to the database will have relevance and alignment, making the retrieval process effortless and more time efficient.

Implementing the new master data management within the already utilized platform Teams will save time as employee training is reduced to a minimum. As the employees may be resistant to implementing a new standardized way of work, as identified from the force field analysis, it will be desired to make the change through a known platform. This will also decrease the number of resources needed for implementation compared to utilizing an entirely new platform. Further, creating standardized templates and guides for the documentation process will make retrieval of case-specific information easygoing, as well as increasing transparency among the team members as everyone has access to case-specific information. This will further improve the customer relationship and the quality of the service provided as the information silos are removed, creating one single source of truth.
Adopting the taxonomy within the database should make it easy for employees to navigate between the different documents. The depth of the taxonomy is kept at six levels, and no document is classified in more than one place (Bruno & Richmond, 2003). In instances where the same type of documents are stored in different places, like with the classification “Decision-making process”, the name of the superclass is included so it becomes “Infrastructure decision-making process”, indicating that it is different from the “Hardware decision-making process”. Using a controlled vocabulary in the taxonomy will enhance the retrieval process, saving time for the employees, which is one of the most scarce resources for the team at the moment. This will make it easier to achieve the mission of the team, as knowledge and personalized information regarding each site is easier available.
Further, as the mission of Network Partner revolves around knowledge and expertise, all interactions with customers should be documented, as well as all decision-making processes, to be able to distribute knowledge and best practices within the team. This will also decrease the lead time of the first interaction in the information flow, as the employees do not initially have to refer to each other but rather can sort through documents in the system. These changes will ensure a consistent information flow within the team and ensure that all relevant case documents and information will be stored in Teams, creating a single, collaborative, and reliable source of information.

## Discussion
As the taxonomy is implemented to ensure collaboration, transparency, and consistency, other problems regarding information management may arise, especially since the team has such a high growth rate at the time. This will also mean that the taxonomy will have to be continually updated and developed to ensure a fit with the business need, as emphasized by Bruno & Richmond (2003). It is further critical to remember that “the lead time for making a difference with MDM is 5-10 years” (Smith & McKeen, 2008, p.68). This will both require allocated time and resources, which may prove to be a problem as the number of tasks has already proven to be a pain point within the team, and an increase in the administrative workload will not be preferred. Another pitfall to consider is the lack of motivation to contribute to the shared database from the side of the employees. As they have different ways of documenting and saving information, a new standardized way to proceed may be discouraging if they perceive their previous process to be more efficient. Hence, there is a need to motivate the employees to use the new standards, as well as collaboration and communication regarding improvements of the templates and processes.
An ethical concern regarding the recommended solution analyzed in the previous parts of the paper is regarding the storage and accessibility of personal communication. The employees within the team will have to document and store both personal mail interactions as well as minutes of meetings which can be accessed by all team members. This may lead to privacy concerns among the employees, and may, in the worst case, lead to a lack of customer support and service in the fear of being micromanaged.

## Conclusion
Based on the analysis of Network Partners' current information management structures and practices and the findings of The Information Audit (1998), a recommended information management strategy and system have been proposed based on the team’s business needs. This proposal is to create and implement a centralized place for information in a structured way, consequently, a taxonomy-based database following the principles of master data management. The employees will have a structured process for the documentation of their business processes which will make documents more transparent, consistent, and easier to retrieve from the database. This new solution allows for increased knowledge sharing between the employees, better customer service, and personalization, as the employees become more informed, supporting up under Network Partners mission. Lastly, challenges for the solution have been discussed, such as time management, lack of motivation, and constant need for development.

